---
layout: post
title: Test
---

From my perspective, psychology went through some turbulent times while I was in grad school.  In the last five years, psychology has been in the news almost as frequently for what we’ve been doing wrong as we have for any insights we’ve shed on human nature.  The list of perceived offenses includes outright data fabrication, publication of wholly unreliable findings, fishy statistical and methodological practices, investigators personally attacking those who critique their work, and illustrious scholars presenting evidence for dubious phenomena.  Though all of these (plus others I’m sure I’m forgetting) are troublesome, the really worrisome observation is that some of these are due to systematic shortcomings in the way we do our science.  

The field has started to recognize this, and a considerable amount of thought has been paid to how to solve this problem.  Given that the problems are mostly statistical, methodological, and organizationally based*, it isn’t surprising at all that much of the discussion has revolved around these issues.  However, shouldn’t we also expect that the kind of research we do will change as well?  

In the middle of the 20th century, psychology was deeply invested in behaviorism.  This occurred, in part, because of difficulties inherent in investigating unobservable mental constructs.  In order to have a rigorous, scientific discipline, they argued, we should study that which is observable, and avoid the more unobservable psychological constructs because they are too slippery to define and work with.  In short, because of methodological problems, researchers set their sights on behavior as the phenomena which needed explaining.  Thus, we learned much about schedules of reward and punishment, learning, and shaping of behavior.  On the other hand, this work gave us relatively little insight into things like working memory, the self, or emotions.  Investigation of these and other constructs which define our interior mental lives would have to wait until the cognitive revolution got under way much later in the century.

We are now experiencing a similar set of circumstances - methodological problems plague the field, and we are changing our methods of science.  This should naturally lead to some changes in the focus of our research as well. Since I love being proved wrong, and because there’s no more sure-fire way to be wrong than to make predictions, I’ve gone ahead and made three of them here.  In particular, I’ve identified three separate ways I think the focus of our research will change in the coming years as a function of our recent troubles.

 There will be an uptick in interest on the psychology of honesty, lying, cheating, etc.  There’s already a fair amount of work on these topics, but it’s likely that we can expect a lot more coming down the pipe.
We will increasingly turn our attention inward, studying ourselves.  Uri Simonsohn has has tackled this from one angle - investigating the statistics reported within papers.  But why should we stop there?  The papers we publish should be a gold mine of information, especially if we’re willing to push the envelope a bit to use more sophisticated text analysis techniques.  There are clearly quantitative breadcrumbs which indicate when investigators are engaging in questionable research practices.  Are there also text-based indications?  What about linguistic markers of influential papers or authors?  Aside from the findings in a paper, or the actual content of the research, does a future successful scholar give him or herself away with the words or syntax they use?

	No need to draw the line at our papers, either.  Most scholars have websites which could be mined for information, and we could also take the more typical approach to investigating the behavior of working academic psychologists.  How do they behave?  When do they write?  How do they conduct their analyses?  Which labs have regular meetings?  What are the moderating factors of each of these, and how does all this change the degree to which someone achieves success in the field, or satisfaction in their work?

Finally, I suggest that we will once again focus more on work which deals with information perceived as less slippery.  I don’t at all mean to suggest that we’ll avoid the unobservable mental states that behaviorism eschewed.  Rather, our data will come from sources which will tend to be easily verified by third parties.  This means less work inside a university lab with undergrads (a disproportionate number of which come from privileged backgrounds), and more work with data which is either readily available to others or is difficult to fake or fiddle with.  Using samples of individuals from the internet (e.g. murk), or relying on data which is sourced from the ever-expanding digital footprint we leave in our wake means that other researchers can sample the exact same populations, or access the exact same data, which should in turn lead to more reliable work.  

Does this solve all the problems associated with the state that psychology finds itself in?  Of course not.  Are these approaches are not without their own sets of shortcomings.  However, this is the direction our field is going.  And although psychology is going through some rough times, it’s an exciting time to be a researcher, because these shifts promise to lead to thrilling new insights.  Here’s to hoping that soon those insights, rather than our collective misdeeds will come to dominate the news our field produces.



*What I mean by this is that some of the problems are due to the half-hazard way studies are sometimes run.  For example, publishing exploratory studies as if they were confirmatory.  Issues with outdated modes of publication also fall into this catch-all term.